# plotly-dash
Kavin Bapat, DS4003

#### This site is for people who are very into music but want to know more of what music was popular in the previous couple decades. People can see what music was popular during what times all the way back to the mid-1950's. They can see which genres are the most popular at which times, and how the different genres have evolved in popularity over time. They can also see how other factors such as track duration and explicity have changed over time with the most popular songs.

###### I planned a very different site from what I finally ended up with because I realized a lot of my ideas either did not make sense with the data I had, or would not be interesting to users. Initially I had all the graphs controlled by one dropdown, but realized that the tracks scatterplot had much more information than the others, so I made it its own plot and added more features to it. I kept the rest of the graphs as a secondary graph that users could look at it if they want to know more about the distribtion of certain factors over time. I ensured that a working range slider was attached to all the graphs, even if there is no year on the x-axis, to ensure that users could play around with it to see how the different time periods looked in terms of what type of songs were popular. I had to manipulate the data more than I did in Sprint 2 as the popularity column, which I originally ignored because of the numerous blank values, ended up being one of the more useful columns, so I had to incorporate a way to display track popularity while working around this issue, which I did with a toggle button. The genres was another large obstacle for me as there were hundreds of different types of genres and derivative genres that I had to work with. In order for the graphs to nicely display the different genres in a way that would be useful and interesting to users, I had to remap a lot of the genres to broader categories. I also had to make the decision of choosing the first genre in the list of genres because I could not think of another way to select which genre I should use. Due to these changes I made to the data, I found it imperative to include a data table at the bottom of the site with the original data so that users could see for themselves what genres each track is classified under. It is also an easy way to sort, filter, and search for whatever specific information they may find interesting.

###### I became very comformtable with using dash components to interact with plotly figures through callback functions and saw how much you can do with such a simple framework. I also improved by basic html and css skills greatly when styling the site towards the end of the project. I made a lot of design and functionality decisions that differed from my original plan so this project helped me understand how to be flexible and adaptive to unforeseen obstacles that appear while working on a project. I also had to manipulate the data much more than I originally realized and have become very adept at using the pandas framework to do so. This helped me realize how tedious working with real-world data can really be. This project has grealty helped me improve my data cleaning and manipulation skills as well as my ability to construct a fully fleshed out website with the data in a user-friendly way.

Link: https://plotly-dash-c2nm.onrender.com
